cmd-ref: document new gc behavior (#1023)
iterative/dvc.org: public/static/docs/command-reference/gc.md

## Synopsis

```usage

> usage: dvc gc [-h] [-q | -v] [-w] [-a] [-T] [-c] [-r REMOTE] [-f] [-j JOBS]

Reviewer: minor: let's split into two lines this one (three lines total?), it makes sense at this point (everything after aux options h, q, v can go to the next line)

This command deletes (garbage collects) data files or directories that may exist
in the cache (or [remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote) if `-c` is
used) but no longer referenced in [DVC-files](/doc/user-guide/dvc-file-format)
currently in the <abbr>workspace</abbr>. To avoid accidentally deleting data,
this command requires the explicit use of [option](#options) flags to determine
it's behavior (i.e. what "garbage" to collect).

> By default, this command won't delete anything at all to make it safe and

Reviewer: looks like a repetition to the previous sentence

Author: fixed, thanks

This command deletes (garbage collects) data files or directories that may exist
in the cache (or [remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote) if `-c` is
used) but no longer referenced in [DVC-files](/doc/user-guide/dvc-file-format)
currently in the <abbr>workspace</abbr>. By default, this command won't delete

> anything at all to make it safe and explicit. However, you can use different

Reviewer 2: > By default, this command won't delete anything at all.

Is this true? `dvc gc` doesn't do anything? Does it output a warning about this at least?

Author: Yes, it doesn't *do* anything. And, it does show error message if tried without any flags. Though for the docs, this is not important.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the info. I'm not so sure this is unimportant for docs but will follow up in https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1023#discussion_r386595996 below. Resolving 🙂

> flags to change the behavior.

Reviewer 2: Maybe `anything at all (a warning is shown),` but yeah, maybe that's not relevant, up to you.

> flags to change the behavior.

Reviewer 2: I checked on DVC 0.87.0 and actually running without flags causes an ERROR output (`ERROR: unexpected error - Invalid Arguments. Either of (all_branches, all_tags, all_commits, workspace, cloud) needs to be enabled.`). Maybe we should express this differently like:
```suggestion
currently in the <abbr>workspace</abbr>. To avoid accidentally deleting data, this command
requires the explicit use of explicit [options](#options) to determine it's behavior (what
"garbage" to collect).
```
> Prob needs wraping.

Using `--workspace` or `-w` flag, it will only clean up the local cache, which
is typically located on the same machine as the project in question. This
usually helps to free up disk space.

There are important things to note when using Git to version the

> <abbr>project</abbr>:

Author: > completely collect the local cache

It's an implementation detail.

> <abbr>project</abbr>:

Reviewer 2: Not really, it explains the behavior of `dvc gc -w`.
I was just rewording "only clean up the local cache" in a clearer way.

> <abbr>project</abbr>:

Author: I don't think it matters to users what we collect. "We keep everything what's currently used in workspace and remove everything else" is a better explanation imo.

> <abbr>project</abbr>:

Reviewer 2: The command is called "garbage collect". I think it's pretty key to explain what it collects with each option 🙂  Again, I was just rewording the previous phrase "only clean up the local cache" (it already explained what is collected). But definitely, if you have a better suggestion go for it.

> "We keep everything what's currently used in workspace and remove everything else"

This is also explaining what is (not) collected. Anyway, yeah it sounds good but probably won't make sense in the current context unless you do other changes, feel free to try using that and read the paragraphs around it to check the text still makes sense.

> <abbr>project</abbr>:

Author: @jorgeorpinel, I haven't changed regarding `it will completely collect the local cache`. Rest of the suggestions were followed.

  useful if tags are used to track "checkpoints" of an experiment or project.
  Note that both options can be combined, for example using the `-aT` flag.

> - `-w`, `--workspace` - remove files in local cache. _This operation is

Reviewer: may be I'm missing something, but `workspace` is not the opposite to `-c`. It's one of the options (along with `-a` and `-T`) to provide the scope of files we would like to keep (and remove everything else). So this option description should be similar to `-a` and/or `-T`

Author: `-w` triggers the same behavior as plain-old `gc`, in that it deletes thing (unless `-a`/`-T` is specified). It's similar to `-c` option..

Reviewer: from the description it sounds like it does delete all files in cache. This is not true (I hope). We need to describe it somehow. The best to describe is to use "keep" semantics like in `-a` or `-T` (i.e. what scope of DVC-file references we keep and remove everything else in cache).

Also, I hope I can run just `-a` still, right? Or just `-T`?

Author: Ahh, okay. I misunderstood you there.

Author: Yes, you can just do `-a` or `-T` without mentioning `-w`.

  useful if tags are used to track "checkpoints" of an experiment or project.
  Note that both options can be combined, for example using the `-aT` flag.

- `-w`, `--workspace` - remove files in local cache that are not referenced in
  the workspace. _This operation is dangerous._ If `--all-tags` or

>   `--all-branches` are specified, this flag is not explicitly required.

Author: No, they can work with `-w` or `-c`, so, it kind-of makes sense to also mention there. Also, `-a` or `-T` by default activates -`w`.

>   `--all-branches` are specified, this flag is not explicitly required.

Reviewer 2: Are we sure? Can you answer https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1023#issuecomment-593587976 please? Copied here:

> Question: do -a and -T keep also cached files referenced in the workspace regardless of whether you're currently checked out in a branch or tag?

I find this mention about -aT here pretty confusing so we need to double check that to figure out the best phrasing (or remove). At this time I think moving this option to the top is probably enough (no mention about -aT, but probably mention -w somehow in -aT.

>   `--all-branches` are specified, this flag is not explicitly required.

Author: Yes, when  `-a` and `-T` are provided, it is same as `-wa` and `-wT` respectively, so, it still keeps everything from workspace.

> Question: do -a and -T keep also cached files referenced in the workspace regardless of whether you're currently checked out in a branch or tag?

Yes, they should (but, I'd verify it tomorrow and update).

>   `--all-branches` are specified, this flag is not explicitly required.

Reviewer 2: > when -a and -T are provided, it is same as -wa and -wT respectively

OK, I just double checked (DVC 0.87.0) when the worskspace is in a detached head (no branch or tag) and indeed this seems to be the case. In fact `dvc gc -a` warns: `WARNING: This will remove all cache except items used in the working tree and all git branches of the current repo.`

so to summarize, my suggestion is to move -w to the top of the options list, and something like
```suggestion
  the workspace. **This behavior is dangerous.** This option is
  enabled automatically if `--all-tags` or `--all-branches` are
  used.
```
Thanks!

> I may open a separate suggestion about how to mention -w in -aT.

- `-p`, `--projects` - if a single remote or a single cache is shared among
  different projects (e.g. a configuration like the one described
  [here](/doc/use-cases/shared-development-server)), this option can be used to
  specify a list of them (each project is a path) to keep data that is currently
  referenced from them.

- `-c`, `--cloud` - remove files in remote storage in addition to local cache.

>   _This operation is dangerous._ It removes datasets, models, other files that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  **This behavior is dangerous.** It removes datasets, models, or other files that
```

7.4G    .dvc/cache/
```

> When you run `dvc gc --workspace` it removes all objects from cache that are not

Reviewer 2: Minor: I'd say let's use the shorthand -w for the example?
```suggestion
When you run `dvc gc -w`, DVC removes all objects from cache that are not
```

Author: I don't know what's more used in the docs, but, I'd say we should prefer long form flags (they are pretty self-explanatory) wherever possible. Or, unless we want to show combinations of flag like following:
```sh
$ dvc gc -caT  # 🐈
```

I'd leave to the user to use/find short-form flags.

Reviewer 2: No strong opinion, up to you.

Reviewer 2: But lets change "it" for "DVC" at least 🙂

referenced in the <abbr>workspace</abbr> (by collecting hash values from the
DVC-files):

```dvc

> $ dvc gc --workspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ dvc gc -w
```

in the <abbr>workspace</abbr> (by collecting hash values from the DVC-files):

> ```dvc

Reviewer: change the paragraph above, please

Author: Fixed.
